
{{toc}}

5/3/16 - this information was moved to the Tools &amp; Techniques section under Developing with LArSoft.
This page will be deleted after 6/5/16 unless someone objects.
7/6/16 - I indicated where things moved to--will unlink this page. 

h3. Utilities

I am using some "utility" scripts to automate things I do often. Some of these have a "legacy" version linked at the bottom of this page.

* @larrun.sh@: run @lar@ in a sandbox in background; options to run out of the sandbox, in foreground, and with a profiling tool. Run it with @--help@. Note that the sandbox requires some care: file paths in the command line should be specified with an absolute path (configuration file should not need that)
* @MonitorProcess.sh@: constantly monitors a running process, relates it to log file advancement and saves memory maps
* @AddMemoryMap.py@: sorts and prints the memory maps saved by @MonitorProcess.sh@ or directly in @procfs@
* @SortModuleTimes.py@: extracts statistics from a @lar@ log file running the @Timing@ service
* @largit.sh@: runs the same @git@ command in all the git packages under @MRB_SOURCE@ directory
* @larcommand.sh@


h1. Tools for memory profiling

valgrid, memcheck, massif, dhap, igperf
moved to: https://cdcvs.fnal.gov/redmine/projects/larsoft/wiki/Memory_profiling_tools

h2. @SimpleMemoryCheck@ (Art module)

moved to: https://cdcvs.fnal.gov/redmine/projects/art/wiki/MemoryTracker


h1. Tools for time profiling

moved to: https://cdcvs.fnal.gov/redmine/projects/larsoft/wiki/Time_profiling_tools


h2. Open|SpeedShop

h1. Profiling of standard runs

|^.
|_. Configuration file[1]           |_. parameters |_. LArSoft version |_. run on |_. profiling tools                                   |_. time per event |_. peak memory usage |
|-.
| @prodsingle_lbnefd_memory.fcl@    | @-s 10@      | circa @v1_00_02@  | 20140206 | none                                                | ~1&#39;              | 2361.6 MiB          |
|                                   |              |                   | 20140210 | [[ Profiling LArSoft #valgrind-massif-tool|massif]] | running (~50&#39;[2]) |                     |
| @standard_reco_lbnefd_memory.fcl@ | @-s 10@      | circa @v1_00_02@  | 20140210 | none                                                | crashed          |                     |
|                                   |              |                   | 20140210 | [[ Profiling LArSoft #valgrind-massif-tool|massif]] | crashed          |                     |

h2. Other runs

* [[prodsingle_uboone]]
* [[prodgenie_bnb_nu_cosmic_3window_uboone]]
* [[standard_g4_uboone]]
* [[standard_detsim_3window_uboone]]
* [[standard_reco_uboone_nowires]]
* [[reco_1w_FULL_pandora]]


fn1. The @_memory@ variant includes the original configuration file ad adds the [[ Profiling LArSoft #simplememorycheck-art-module|SimpleMemoryCheck]] module.

fn2. This figure excludes the very first event, which could be slowed down by first-time initialization.

---

Created by: "Gianluca Petrillo (petrillo@fnal.gov)":mailto:petrillo@fnal.gov
