
h1. Event Displays

Last updated November 24, 2020

The LArSoft event display strategy is to provide support for community developed and supported displays sufficient to allow running within LArSoft and gallery environments, such that community members can choose on their own. Here are the currently available options (Nov 2020):
# LArSoft Event Display (ROOT based)
In principle can display everything both in 2D and 3D 
Very slow for large detectors.
Works for all detectors. Can display multiple data items and labels at once. It can be extended to display information within any data product and associations.
Runs in LArSoft only -- not gallery
Redmine https://cdcvs.fnal.gov/redmine/projects/larsoft/wiki/EventDisplay
# TITUS  (Qt based)
Combination of python (3) and C++ and is based on the PyQT5 interface. 
Lead developer:  Marco Del Tutto
Updated version (by Marco Del Tutto and Gianluca Petrillo) of the  event display originally authored by Corey Adams (QT based) for MicroBooNE 
Runs in gallery. The container solution (built to SLF7) will run on windows, OSX and linux in docker.
Being used by ICARUS. Works for MicroBooNE, ArguNeut and possibly DUNE.
Native 2D displays of low-level data. See 
https://sbnsoftware.github.io/icaruscode_wiki/EventDisplay/titus_event_display.html
https://cdcvs.fnal.gov/redmine/projects/sbndcode/wiki/TITUS_Event_Display and 
https://arxiv.org/abs/2007.06517 for more information.
# WebEVD (using three.js/WebGL for access to OpenGL) 
Lead developer:  Chris Backhouse 
In use at ProtoDUNE. Has been updating based on feature requests. 
Runs in LArSoft &amp; Gallery. 
2D display of the raw digits is provided by rotating to the correct angle and using an orthographic projection. 
UPS product distributed with LArSoft.
Redmine page: https://cdcvs.fnal.gov/redmine/projects/dunetpc/wiki/Instructions_for_WebEVD
From the CERN collaboration meeting in January, 2020: https://cdcvs.fnal.gov/redmine/attachments/62229/webevd.pdf
# EVE based for SBND
Lead developer:  Umut Kose
3D Oriented, 
Study about using EVE for event display started after SBN workshop in 2019 at Fermilab. It aims to provide the functions of 3D and 2D projection views, animations, interactive display for users.
Eve is a ROOT module based on experiment-independent part of the ALICE event display developed in cooperation between ALICE offline project and ROOT.
Runs in LArSoft.
Paper:  https://inspirehep.net/files/88d70fb20fb99b61a904acbe920aa9be 
# Bee event display (based on WebGL)
Developed by Chao Zhang for use with wire-cell.
3D oriented. 
Uses three.js. Takes wire-cell data format as input, so requires a conversion step for art-root files.
Does not run in LArSoft or gallery.  
Documentation: http://bnlif.github.io/wire-cell-docs/viz/bee/
# Phoenix event display 
Lead developer:  owned by HSF visualization group
Experiment-agnostic, browser-based display that relies on event serialization via JSON.  It allows for a shared code base.
No known demonstration with LArSoft data.
Does not run in LArSoft or gallery. 
Presentation: https://indico.cern.ch/event/916410/contributions/3852667/attachments/2051044/3437881/Phoenix_HSF_04062020.pdf


VNC provides a remote window to easily view GUIs from a remote machine with very little delayed response. Instructions are available at: https://cdcvs.fnal.gov/redmine/projects/sbndcode/wiki/Viewing_events_remotely_with_VNC


