
h1. Install for cvmfs

{{TOC}}

h2. Install in  /cvmfs/larsoft.opensciencegrid.org/products

* ssh cvmfslarsoft@oasiscfs.fnal.gov
*  cvmfs_server transaction larsoft.opensciencegrid.org
*  ./scripts/installBundle.sh larsoft <release> <qualifiers>
** installBundle will install debug and prof distributions for slf7 e17 and c2, slf6 e17 and c2, d18 c2, and d17 c2.  
<pre>./scripts/installBundle.sh larsoft v08_14_00 s86-e17</pre>
* check that the install was clean
**  --- make sure /cvmfs/larsoft.opensciencegrid.org/products/.working is empty
**  --- check everything! ---
* cvmfs_server publish larsoft.opensciencegrid.org
* Note that the eXY distributions are available only for SLF.  The c2 distributions are available for both SLF and macOS.


h2. Install in /grid/fermiapp/products/larsoft

* login to uboonegpvmNN as larsoft
* If you do anything beyond installing a release, edit ~/LArLog to note what changes you made.
* There is a README
* Useful scripts are found in ~/work/scripts
* cd work/<username>
* installRelease.sh will run pullProducts for supported macOS platforms
** <pre>
/grid/fermiapp/larsoft/home/larsoft/work/scripts/installRelease.sh <release> <quals>
where <quals> might be s86-c2
</pre>
* We only install the macOS distributions on /grid/fermiapp. These are used by Jenkins builds.
* If you need to install by hand
** ../scripts/pullProducts /grid/fermiapp/products/larsoft <dXY> larsoft-<version> <quals> <debug|prof>
** to pull, for instance, larsoft v06_74_00 <pre>
./pullProducts -p /grid/fermiapp/products/larsoft  d17 larsoft-v06_74_00 s65-c2 debug
./pullProducts -p /grid/fermiapp/products/larsoft  d17 larsoft-v06_74_00 s65-c2 prof
</pre>
* verify
** source /grid/fermiapp/products/larsoft/setup
** ups list -aK+ larsoft <new_version>
** ups depend larsoft <new_version> -q <qualifiers>
*** Information on ups is available at [[ups:Getting_Started_Using_UPS]]


