
h1. LArSoft Internals

{{>toc}}

h2(count). LArSoft code management and distribution

* [[Adding / removing users]]
* [[Admin scripts]]
* [[LArSoft release management]] 
** [[How_to_tag_and_build_a_LArSoft_vx_yy_zz_release|How to tag and build a normal LArSoft vxx_yy_zz release]]
** [[How to tag and build a LArSoft patch release]]
** [[Installing products on cvmfs]]
* [[Informal list of experiment contacts]]
* [[Policy for development from a tagged release]]
* [[Procedure to create a new version of larsoft_data|Procedure to create a new version of larsoft_data, uboone_data, etc.]]
* [[Installation procedures]]
* [[LArSoft cvmfs]]
* [[Nightly builds]] (no longer done)

h2(count). Repository cleanup

* [[Removing old feature branches]]
* [[Removing old history]]

h2(count). Truncating commit history

* [[Truncating commit history at svn to git transition]]

h2(count). who does what

[[What Lynn does]]

h2(count). Pages to update and move

Some pages in LArSoft have a combination of useful and out-of-date information. It would be good to at least remove the out-of-date material, even better would be to update it. The following is a list. Feel free to revise any of the pages and suggest where they should go. (Note, some information may belong partly on larsoft.org and partly in redmine.)
  
* [[Using LArSoft on the GPVM nodes]] - review and update (and place in [[Developing with LArSoft]]  or [[Using LArSoft]])
* [[larsoft:Package Documentation]] - out of date?
* [[larsoft:Geometry]] - should this be split between "larsoft.org":http://larsoft.org/important-concepts-in-larsoft/geometry/ and [[Developing with LArSoft]] could be under Designing, or under Examples.
* [[larsoft:Reconstruction]] - merge into larsoft.org?
* [[larsoft:Simulation]] - update code references, split?
* [[larsoft:Space Points]] - out of date?
* [[larsoftsvn:Seed Finding and Bezier Tracking]] - look at legacy info, maybe delete, or find owner?
* [[larsoftsvn:Optical Simulations]] - - look at legacy info, update, split?
* [[dependencies]] 


h2(count). [[FNAL Redmine tricks]]

h2(count). Ongoing Projects

[[Architecture revision]]
* [[Data products architecture and design]]
** [[DataProductsArchitectureActionItems|action items]]
* [[Data product revision (phase II)]]

[[Usability improvements]]

[[LArSoft License]]

h2(count). Code cleanup

* [[Services and modules scheduled for removal]]

h2(count). Completed Projects

[[Building with clang]]
[[Migration to root 6]]

h2(count). LArSoft code analysis 

* "Code analysis process":https://cdcvs.fnal.gov/redmine/projects/larsoft/wiki/Code_analysis_process_and_tools
* [[Code and Performance analysis tools]]
* [[PMA module code analysis]]

h2(count). Profiling tests

* [[ProtoDUNE and DUNE Far Detector simulation and reconstruction workflows (v06_57_00)]]

h2(count). Legacy Redmine project sites

These were the sites used when LArSoft was developed under cvs and svn + SoftRelTools, respectively:

[[larsoft-cvs:| LArSoft-cvs wiki for the legacy cvs-based LArSoft project]]
[[larsoftsvn:| LArSoft-svn wiki for the legacy svn-based LArSoft project]]

As of Jan 24, 2014, LArSoft transitioned from svn / SRT to git / mrb / ups, but we retain the legacy projects for historical reasons.
