
h1. LArSoft Release Final Steps

{{TOC}}


h2. Make the cross package tag

* This step can only be done by someone with manager privileges for all the larsoft repositories.
** setup laradmin
** cp-lar-tag vxx_yy_zz <larsoftobj version>
** This will apply the tag LARSOFT_SUITE_vxx_yy_zz to the appropriate tag that was used to build vxx_yy_zz in the various larsoft repositories.
* The cross package tag must be added by hand for *larutils* and *larbatch*
** cd $MRB_SOURCE/<larbatch|larutils>
** git checkout master
** git diff <new tag for this package>
** If there are differences the cross package tag cannot be added
** git tag -a -m"LARSOFT_SUITE_vxx_yy_zz" LARSOFT_SUITE_vxx_yy_zz
** git push --tags

h2. Update the release notes

* run make-release-notes (found in laradmin)

** make-release-notes <working_directory> <new tag> <old tag>

** the script will create a <new tag> subdirectory under <working_directory>, checkout the larsoft suite there, and run git log 
** note that make-release-notes uses the cross package tag
* the first line in ReleaseNotes-<version> is the entry for the [[LArSoft_release_list|Release Notes table]]
* the remainder of the file is used to populate the release note itself

h2.  Update doxygen

* ssh -l larsoft uboonegpvm02.fnal.gov
* cd doxygen
* ./update_lar_doxygen.sh >&amp; update.log

h2. Merge the changes with develop

* Notice that we need to make sure that the new release is available before we update the develop branch with new version numbers.
* This step should be done in $MRB_SOURCE
* tagLAr merge vxx_yy_zz
** tagLAr will merge local branch release/vxx_yy_zz with the head of develop
** if conflicts occur, the merge must be done by hand for each repository <pre>

cd $MRB_SOURCE/larpackage
git checkout develop
git pull
git merge release/vxx_yy_zz
(resolve conflicts)
git push origin develop
</pre>
* Once this step is complete, it is safe to remove the working directory for this release.

h2. Announcing the release

* Send email announcing that the release is built and available
** Make sure you include a link to the release notes.
** Mention the purpose of the release and any feature branches needed by the experiments.
** Also include a link to the download page and list the platforms for which the binary distribution is available.

