
h1. LArSoft cvmfs

* /cvmfs/larsoft.opensciencegrid.org
* [[Installing products on cvmfs]]

h2. General instructions for managing software

* login as cvmfslarsoft@oasiscfs 
** you will be in the /home/cvmfslarsoft directory
* FIFE instructions
** copied from [[fife:Introduction_to_FIFE_and_Component_Services#OASISCVMFS-process-for-VOs-that-have-Fermilab-as-a-host-institution]]
** The files for the repository are found in /cvmfs/larsoft.opensciencegrid.org. 
*** They are initially read-only until a transaction is started.
** Do cvmfs_server transaction larsoft.opensciencegrid.org to initiate a transaction. 
*** This makes the repository writable. 
*** If there was a transaction already under way the command will inform you.
** Update files in /cvmfs/larsoft.opensciencegrid.org. 
*** If you make a mistake, all changes can be discarded and the transaction aborted by running cvmfs_server abort larsoft.opensciencegrid.org.
** Do cvmfs_server publish larsoft.opensciencegrid.org. 
*** This processes all the changes, makes them part of the published repository, and makes the repository read-only again.
** Updates should then appear on worker nodes typically within a half hour, but sometimes it will be longer if the update was large or if the Stratum 1 is busy with doing a large update of another repository.

h2. Install a larsoft release

* The product directory is /cvmfs/larsoft.opensciencegrid.org/products
* To install any larsoft release:
<pre>
cvmfs_server transaction larsoft.opensciencegrid.org
./scripts/installBundle.sh larsoft <release> <qualifiers>
cvmfs_server publish larsoft.opensciencegrid.org
</pre>
* The installBundle.sh script can be used to install any SciSoft distribution (e.g., nu).
* See [[Installing products on cvmfs]] for more details.

[[How we initialized larsoft cvmfs]]
