
h1. LArSoft v05_00_02 Release Notes

{{>TOC}}

[[LArSoft_release_list|list of LArSoft releases]]
"Download instructions":http://scisoft.fnal.gov/scisoft/bundles/larsoft/v05_00_02/larsoft-v05_00_02.html

h2. Purpose

* Add a few more cases to update_sources.sh

h2. New features

* See [[ReleaseNotes050001|LArSoft 05.00.01 Release Notes]]

h2. Breaking Changes

* To update local code, run update_sources.sh and UpdateCoreServices.py 
** setup larsoft v05_00_02 (with qualifiers)
** UpdateCoreServices.py --doit <mydir>
** update_sources.sh <mydir>
** It is safe to run the scripts more than once on the same code.
** You can run the scripts in either order.
* There may be more changes required by the new core services changes than can be dealt with in a script.
** These changes are already in place for argoneutcode, dunetpc, lar1ndcode, lariatsoft, and uboonecode.
* If you want to test code in your favorite feature branch, it might be easier in some cases to check out the appropriate v05 tag, then merge your changes rather than rely on the translation scripts to perform all the necessary architecture changes.
* In all cases, please make sure your code is up to date with larsoft v04_31_01 before attempting a merge.


h2. Updated dependencies

h1. Change List

h2. larsoft v05_00_02

* 2016-02-16  Lynn Garren : larsoft v05_00_02 for larsoft v05_00_02
* 2016-02-16  Lynn Garren : a few more
* 2016-02-16  Lynn Garren : um ...
* 2016-02-16  Lynn Garren : a few more fixes

h2. lareventdisplay v05_00_01



h2. larexamples v05_00_01



h2. larpandora v05_00_01



h2. larana v05_00_01



h2. larreco v05_00_01



h2. larsim v05_00_01



h2. larevt v05_00_01



h2. lardata v05_00_01



h2. larcore v05_00_01



h2. larbatch v01_20_03



h2. larutils v1_05_01



