
h1. LArSoft v03_04_00 Release Notes

{{>TOC}}

[[LArSoft_release_list|list of LArSoft releases]]
"Download instructions":http://scisoft.fnal.gov/scisoft/projects/larsoft/v03_04_00/larsoft-v03_04_00.html

h2. Purpose

* Include changes in development since v03_03_02.

h2. New features

* lardata, larreco, and larana now include code necessary for including a plane ID in the anab::Calorimetry data product.

h2. Bug fixes

h2. Updated dependencies

| Product | Version | Qualifier | Notes |
| larsoft_data | v0_03_01 |  | |


h1. Change List

h2. larsoft v03_04_00

* 2014-11-04  Lynn Garren : laroft v03_04_00
* use larsoft_data v0_03_01

h2. lareventdisplay v03_02_03

* 2014-11-04  Lynn Garren : lareventdisplay v03_02_03

h2. larexamples v03_02_03

* 2014-11-04  Lynn Garren : larexamples v03_02_03

h2. larpandora v03_03_02

* 2014-11-04  Lynn Garren : larpandora v03_03_02

h2. larana v03_03_00

* 2014-11-04  Wesley Ketchum : fix a typo, and normalize the KDE estimates
* 2014-11-04  Wesley Ketchum : put in all the fcl files, make a tree to look at output more easily, and do a little debugging
* 2014-11-04  Wesley Ketchum : fill in all the fhicl files
* 2014-11-01  Wesley Ketchum : write some code so I can print the PIDA to screen and check on the values
* 2014-11-01  Wesley Ketchum : add in an analyzer module for looking at the PIDAAlg
* 2014-11-01  Wesley Ketchum : handle the PIDA distribution in a more sophisticated way: get most probable value (more suitable if it is a landau shape, and less likely to be influenced by bad dEdx) via a kernel density estimation process
* 2014-11-01  Wesley Ketchum : add in a normal distribution class, so i dont have to evaluate guassians every time i need to for the KDE stuff ima gonna write soon
* 2014-11-01  Wesley Ketchum : add in a minimum residual range option
* 2014-11-01  Wesley Ketchum : do the meat of the algorithm ... first the simple functions
* 2014-11-01  Wesley Ketchum : make a little PIDA standalong algorithm
* 2014-10-31  Wesley Ketchum : fix association making, and print all calorimetry objects per track
* 2014-10-30  Wesley Ketchum : update calorimetry modules to use a plane ID
* 2014-10-29  Wesley Ketchum : fix a bug in the direction of the track (actually, filling of residual range vector, etc.)
* 2014-10-29  Wesley Ketchum : fixes to get it to build
* 2014-10-29  Wesley Ketchum : make a very simple analyzer to just print out the calorimetry objects for comparison
* 2014-10-29  Wesley Ketchum : start on an analyzer to simply print calorimetry objects for direct comparison
* 2014-10-28  Wesley Ketchum : fix path length fraction function, and remove some cout statements
* 2014-10-28  Wesley Ketchum : comment out a bad clear of the multiseet
* 2014-10-28  Wesley Ketchum : put in a print function for debugging

h2. larreco v03_03_00

* 2014-11-04  Wesley Ketchum : Merge branch &#39;feature/wketchum_CalorimetryPlaneID&#39; into develop
* 2014-11-04  Bruce Baller : CCTrackMaker module + ClusterCrawler mods + new algs
* 2014-11-04  Bruce Baller : CCTrackMaker module addition plus ClusterCrawler mods and new algs
* 2014-10-30  Wesley Ketchum : update shower reco to use a plane ID when it makes its calo objects

h2. larsim v03_02_03

* 2014-11-04  Lynn Garren : larsim v03_02_03
* use larsoft_data v0_03_01

h2. larevt v03_02_03

* 2014-11-04  Lynn Garren : larevt v03_02_03

h2. lardata v03_03_00

* 2014-11-04  Wesley Ketchum : Merge branch &#39;feature/wketchum_CalorimetryPlaneID&#39; into develop
* 2014-11-04  Herbert Greenlee : Add comment to the effect that FileCatalogMetadataExtras is depracated.
* 2014-10-30  Wesley Ketchum : add in a PlaneID for the calorimetry object
* 2014-10-29  Wesley Ketchum : add a few other elements to be printed out with Calorimetry object

h2. larcore v03_03_00

* 2014-10-31  Gianluca Petrillo : Removed spurious file
* 2014-10-31  Gianluca Petrillo : Merge branch &#39;feature/bb_wirework&#39; into develop
* 2014-09-18  Gianluca Petrillo : Forgot to remove one noisy line from GeometryTest
* 2014-09-18  Gianluca Petrillo : One of the wire test in GeometryTest can now be disabled.
* 2014-09-18  Gianluca Petrillo : Reduced the output of geometry test in profiling mode.
* 2014-09-17  Gianluca Petrillo : Added PlaneGeo::WireIDincreasesWithZ()
* 2014-09-17  Gianluca Petrillo : Added methods to compute normal direction and increasing wire direction to geo::PlaneGeo. Added constructors to geo::XxxID and more object retrieval to geometry iterators. Made the GeometryTest module code more generic.
* 2014-09-16  Gianluca Petrillo : Make TPCID compatible with the one in develop
* 2014-08-27  Gianluca Petrillo : Made WireCoordinate() test optional. LBNE fails the test (at least in part, the test fails LBNE).
* 2014-08-27  Gianluca Petrillo : Added extensive NearestWire() geometry test
* 2014-09-04  Lynn Garren : for larsoft v02_06_00
* 2014-09-03  Lynn Garren : for larsoft v02_05_03
* 2014-09-02  Corey Adams : Removing lar1 files from larcore.
* 2014-08-26  Lynn Garren : for larsoft v02_05_02
* 2014-08-25  Brian Rebel : add a warning message to indicate that the geometry is using the detector id rather than the detector name
* 2014-08-25  Brian Rebel : add a warning message to indicate that the geometry is using the detector id rather than the detector name
* 2014-08-14  Brian Rebel : remove the use of DetId from most code.  The enumeration still exists, along with a new kUnknownDetId to enable a cascade for use with files already on disk. When necessary, compare the value returned by DetectorName - mostly done in either very experiment specific code (ie MicroBooNEPandora_module.cc) or in the GeometryTest_module.cc.  Remove some unused functions from Geometry, GetGDMLPath and GetROOTPath as they return the same value as the ROOTFile and GMDLFile methods.  Changed GetDetectorName to DetectorName as the Get is just 3 characters of extra typing.
* 2014-08-13  Brian Rebel : changes to remove the use of DetId_t from LArSoft.  Add an enumeration for kUnknownDetId for the time being.  Prefer to work with strings of the detector name in RunData and Geometry vs the old DetId_t, but cascade to the old way of doing thing for files that already exist on disk
* 2014-08-27  Gianluca Petrillo : Fixing bugs from the last commit
* 2014-08-27  Gianluca Petrillo : Fixing a bug in the new Geometry::WireCoordinate()
* 2014-08-26  Gianluca Petrillo : Formal interface change in ChannelMapAlg::WireCoordinate()
* 2014-08-25  Gianluca Petrillo : Fixed the y shift in the WireCoordinate() test
* 2014-08-25  Gianluca Petrillo : Added test to Geometry::WireCoordinate() (debug version, needs to be made quiet)
* 2014-08-25  Gianluca Petrillo : Added cryostat, TPC, plane and wire iterators to iterate though the whole detector.
* 2014-08-22  Bruce Baller : Add WireCoordinate and ThirdPlaneSlope methods

