
h1. LArSoft v02_05_02 Release Notes

[[LArSoft_release_list|list of LArSoft releases]]

h2. larsoft v02_05_02

* 2014-08-26  Lynn Garren : releaseDB/base_dependency_database for v02_05_02

h2. lareventdisplay v02_05_02

* 2014-08-26  Tingjun Yang : Merge branch &#39;feature/fclupdates&#39; into develop
* 2014-08-13  Tingjun Yang : fix calorimetry display, clean up fcl files

h2. larexamples v02_05_02

* 2014-08-26  William Seligman : Update .fcl file with current style of services include.

h2. larpandora v02_05_02

* 2014-08-26  Brian Rebel : Merge branch &#39;develop&#39; of ssh://cdcvs.fnal.gov/cvs/projects/larpandora into develop
* 2014-08-15  Andrew Blake : Use integers rather than floats when looping. To make this change, I made the &#39;XOverlap&#39; objects (which store the information used to sample events or compare views using the X coordinate) return their own integer &#39;xBin&#39; values.
* 2014-08-15  Andrew Blake : Fixing loop in ThreeDTransverseTracksAlgorithm when separation in X drops below floating point precision
* 2014-08-14  Brian Rebel : remove use of Geometry::DetId() throughout the code.  Use instead the Geometry::DetectorName() to store the string of the detector.

h2. larana v02_05_02

* 2014-08-25  Wesley Ketchum : Merge remote-tracking branch &#39;origin/develop&#39; into feature/wketchum_CosmicTag
* 2014-08-24  Wesley Ketchum : forgot to put hit<-->tag assns on event! how ridiculous!
* 2014-08-24  Wesley Ketchum : forgot the produces line for hit<-->tag assns
* 2014-08-24  Wesley Ketchum : add in a hit<-->tag associator alg, using track is intermediate
* 2014-08-23  Sowjanya Gollapinni : Removing a line in CosmicTrackTagger that was creating additional tags. Also putting a generic cosmictagger fhicl file
* 2014-08-22  Wesley Ketchum : fix a few spots where I missed the new CosmicTagID_t
* 2014-08-22  Wesley Ketchum : make cosmic taggers use new CosmicTagID_t enum; also, mv the older CosmicTagger_module but leave it here just in case we need it
* 2014-08-22  Wesley Ketchum : Merge branch &#39;develop&#39; of ssh://cdcvs.fnal.gov/cvs/projects/larana into develop
* 2014-08-22  Wesley Ketchum : Merge branch &#39;feature/wketchum_bftmUpdates&#39; into develop
* 2014-08-22  Wesley Ketchum : add a few extra options to BFTMT: normalize the hypothesis to compare to flash, and minimum track length to compare --- also, change some default fcl parameters
* 2014-08-22  Sarah Lockwitz : fixed how single boundary tracks are handled
* 2014-08-22  Wesley Ketchum : add in option for making outside drift window tags
* 2014-08-22  Wesley Ketchum : Merge branch &#39;develop&#39; of ssh://cdcvs.fnal.gov/cvs/projects/larana into develop
* 2014-08-22  Wesley Ketchum : Merge branch &#39;feature/wketchum_CosmicTagAnaSpeedy&#39; into develop
* 2014-08-22  Wesley Ketchum : fix some typos
* 2014-08-22  Wesley Ketchum : remove the timing stuff, and do some general cleaning --- prepare to merge this thing!
* 2014-08-21  Wesley Ketchum : some timing stuff
* 2014-08-20  Sowjanya Gollapinni : putting some code in to tag delta rays associated to a already cosmic tagged track
* 2014-08-18  Wesley Ketchum : fix a bug on flash integral, check for photon visbility vector size to prevent crashes, and skip tracks outside drift window; also, update default settings in fcl file
* 2014-08-17  Wesley Ketchum : Merge branch &#39;feature/wketchum_BeamFlashTrackMatch&#39; into develop
* 2014-08-17  Wesley Ketchum : add in some debugging/information functions to BeamFlashTrackMatchTagger
* 2014-08-17  Wesley Ketchum : put the module and alg parameters in the fcl file
* 2014-08-17  Wesley Ketchum : fixes to make it compile
* 2014-08-16  Wesley Ketchum : BeamFlashCompatibility for nonBezierTracks
* 2014-08-16  Wesley Ketchum : quick fix on typo of association utility call
* 2014-08-16  Wesley Ketchum : Merge branch &#39;develop&#39; into feature/wketchum_CosmicTagAnaSpeedy
* 2014-08-16  Wesley Ketchum : use the new utilities, and remove a bunch of unnecessary headers
* 2014-08-15  Wesley Ketchum : remove all the old to make room for the new
* 2014-08-15  Wesley Ketchum : adjust ordering of getting assoiciations
* 2014-08-15  Wesley Ketchum : adding in a bunch of new ways of doing things to improve timing; this is all very dirty code right now, but useful for doing timing comparisons
* 2014-08-15  Sarah Lockwitz : cleaned up the tagger code a bit
* 2014-08-14  Wesley Ketchum : Merge branch &#39;develop&#39; into feature/wketchum_CosmicTagMCTest
* 2014-08-14  Wesley Ketchum : put in use of mchitcollection on cosmic ana

h2. larreco v02_05_02

* 2014-08-26  Lynn Garren : d5 and d6 need to be initialized
* 2014-08-26  Brian Rebel : Merge branch &#39;develop&#39; of ssh://cdcvs.fnal.gov/cvs/projects/larreco into develop
* 2014-08-26  Brian Rebel : Merge branch &#39;feature/NoDetId&#39; into develop
* 2014-08-25  Brian Rebel : remove commented out include
* 2014-08-21  Herbert Greenlee : Add ability of Track3DKalmanHit to use PFParticle hits as input (from Tracy Usher).
* 2014-08-23  Bruce Baller : Numerous improvements to cluster crawling and vertex finding
* 2014-08-17  Muhammad Elnimr : Updates to TrackAnaCT.
* 2014-08-14  Brian Rebel : remove use of Geometry::DetId() throughout the code.  Use instead the Geometry::DetectorName() to store the string of the detector.

h2. larsim v02_05_02

* 2014-08-26  Tingjun Yang : Merge branch &#39;develop&#39; of ssh://cdcvs.fnal.gov/cvs/projects/larsim into develop
* 2014-08-26  Brian Rebel : Merge branch &#39;develop&#39; of ssh://cdcvs.fnal.gov/cvs/projects/larsim into develop
* 2014-08-26  Brian Rebel : Merge branch &#39;feature/NoDetId&#39; into develop
* 2014-08-25  Brian Rebel : remove use of ChannelFilter as it is undefined for most detectors
* 2014-08-22  Thomas Junk : fix bug in bugfix -- uniform in sin(thetaYZ) (mistakenly had been switched to uniform in thetaYZ).  Keep the bounds checking to ensure that the interval stays in -pi/2 to pi/2 for all user input.
* 2014-08-21  Tristan Blackburn : Fixed bug in uniform thetaYZ
* 2014-08-21  Tristan Blackburn : Fixed bug in uniform thetaYZ
* 2014-08-15  Tingjun Yang : clean up fcl files
* 2014-08-14  Brian Rebel : remove use of Geometry::DetId() throughout the code.  Use instead the Geometry::DetectorName() to store the string of the detector.

h2. larevt v02_05_02

* 2014-08-26  Brian Rebel : fix a bad commit that failed to compile
* 2014-08-26  Brian Rebel : Merge branch &#39;develop&#39; of ssh://cdcvs.fnal.gov/cvs/projects/larevt into develop
* 2014-08-26  Brian Rebel : Merge branch &#39;feature/NoDetId&#39; into develop
* 2014-08-25  Brian Rebel : remove use of ChannelFilter as it is undefined for most detectors
* 2014-08-14  Brian Rebel : remove use of Geometry::DetId() throughout the code.  Use instead the Geometry::DetectorName() to store the string of the detector name in the RunSummary object.

h2. lardata v02_05_02

* 2014-08-26  Tingjun Yang : remove signalservices.fcl from services_csu40L.fcl
* 2014-08-26  Tingjun Yang : Merge branch &#39;feature/fclupdates&#39; into develop
* 2014-08-26  Tingjun Yang : Merge branch &#39;feature/fclupdates&#39; of ssh://cdcvs.fnal.gov/cvs/projects/lardata into feature/fclupdates
* 2014-08-15  Tingjun Yang : add configurations for csu40L
* 2014-08-14  Tingjun Yang : move experiment fcl parameters out of standard fcl files
* 2014-08-14  Tingjun Yang : move experiment fcl parameters out of standard fcl files
* 2014-08-14  Tingjun Yang : move experiment fcl parameters out of standard fcl files
* 2014-08-14  Tingjun Yang : clean up fcl files
* 2014-08-25  Wesley Ketchum : Merge remote-tracking branch &#39;origin/develop&#39; into feature/wketchum_CosmicTag
* 2014-08-24  Wesley Ketchum : forgot some updates to classes_def for doing hit<-->tag associations
* 2014-08-22  Wesley Ketchum : update classes_def.xml (calling this CosmicTag v2), and add in a few single boundary types to the CosmicTag enum
* 2014-08-22  Wesley Ketchum : Merge branch &#39;develop&#39; into feature/wketchum_CosmicTag
* 2014-08-22  Wesley Ketchum : version number in anab::CosmicTag classdef
* 2014-08-16  Wesley Ketchum : Merge branch &#39;develop&#39; into feature/wketchum_NewAssocUtils
* 2014-08-15  Wesley Ketchum : add in some simple and useful utilities for making simple vectors and vector of vectors from assns
* 2014-08-15  Tingjun Yang : add configurations for csu40L
* 2014-08-14  Tingjun Yang : move experiment fcl parameters out of standard fcl files
* 2014-08-14  Tingjun Yang : move experiment fcl parameters out of standard fcl files
* 2014-08-14  Tingjun Yang : move experiment fcl parameters out of standard fcl files
* 2014-08-14  Tingjun Yang : clean up fcl files
* 2014-08-07  Wesley Ketchum : put in CosmicTagID_t

h2. larcore v02_05_02

* 2014-08-26  Brian Rebel : Merge branch &#39;develop&#39; of ssh://cdcvs.fnal.gov/cvs/projects/larcore into develop
* 2014-08-26  Brian Rebel : Merge branch &#39;feature/NoDetId&#39; into develop
* 2014-08-25  Brian Rebel : add a warning message to indicate that the geometry is using the detector id rather than the detector name
* 2014-08-25  Brian Rebel : add a warning message to indicate that the geometry is using the detector id rather than the detector name
* 2014-08-14  Brian Rebel : remove the use of DetId from most code.  The enumeration still exists, along with a new kUnknownDetId to enable a cascade for use with files already on disk. When necessary, compare the value returned by DetectorName - mostly done in either very experiment specific code (ie MicroBooNEPandora_module.cc) or in the GeometryTest_module.cc.  Remove some unused functions from Geometry, GetGDMLPath and GetROOTPath as they return the same value as the ROOTFile and GMDLFile methods.  Changed GetDetectorName to DetectorName as the Get is just 3 characters of extra typing.
* 2014-08-13  Brian Rebel : changes to remove the use of DetId_t from LArSoft.  Add an enumeration for kUnknownDetId for the time being.  Prefer to work with strings of the detector name in RunData and Geometry vs the old DetId_t, but cascade to the old way of doing thing for files that already exist on disk

